# MNIST Classification Project
 
## Author: Gexin Chen  Uni: gc2936

## Project Description: 
This project utilize the famous MNIST dataset to train, evaluate and compare various kinds of machine learning algorithms. 
At first, the project trains some simple classifiers and compares their performance based on classification error on test dataset.
Then, the project utilizes the same train dataset to train three different neural network algorithms including single layer neural network, convolutional neural network and LeNet-5. After that, I investigate the influence of difference initializations (different shuffle patterns of training set), difference learning rates and different momentum on the performance of three algorithms.
At last, I try to train a machine learning algorithm on a different dataset. Each sample in this dataset is generated by concatenating two random images from MNIST and each label is the summation of two digits.

## Outline:
### 1. Background Information about MNIST;
### 2. Data Preprocessing;
### 3. Simple Classifiers including K Nearest Neighbors, Ada Boosting & SVM with Gaussian Kernel;
### 4. Deep Learning Algorithms including Single Layer Neural Network, Convolutional Neural Network, LeNet-5;
### 5. Deep Learning Algorithms Dealing with Arithmetic Operations.

## Reference: 
Bloice, M. D., Roth, P. M., &amp; Holzinger, A. (2019, December 6). Performing arithmetic using a neural network trained on digit permutation pairs. arXiv.org. Retrieved April 26, 2022, from https://arxiv.org/abs/1912.03035 
